[Feature Flags] Add permissions and approvals concept pages (#37567)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/feature_flags/concepts/approvals.md

---

> title: Approvals

Reviewer: More detailed page titles help SEO/GEO (but shorter titles OK to keep as-is in the nav menu):
```suggestion
title: Feature Flags Approvals
```

description: Require approvals before feature flag changes apply in production environments.
further_reading:
- link: "/feature_flags/concepts/permissions"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Permissions and Access Control"
- link: "/feature_flags/concepts/environments"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Environments"
---

## Overview

Approvals help you control what changes are made to feature flags and by whom. In addition to [granular access control](/feature_flags/concepts/permissions), you can require approvals for changes to certain flags or production environments before those changes take effect.

## Require approvals on an environment

> 1. Navigate to <a href="https://app.datadoghq.com/feature-flags/settings/environments"><strong>Feature Flags &gt; Settings &gt; Environments</strong></a>.

Author: Fixed — converted all inline markdown links to reference-style throughout."

2. Select the environment you want to configure.
3. If it is not already a production environment, mark it as a [production environment](/feature_flags/concepts/environments/#production-environments).
4. Enable the option to require approvals.

{{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/environment-approvals.png" alt="Edit Environment dialog with Mark as production environment and Require feature flag approval options." style="width:100%;" >}}

> 

Author: Fixed

> After you enable approvals, subsequent changes that impact application behavior in that environment require approval from another user with the **Editor** role on the flag before they can be applied. Examples include:

Reviewer: This is also a long sentence; consider breaking up (also addresses the bot feedback above about "Editor role"):
```suggestion
After you enable approvals, subsequent changes that impact application behavior in that environment require approval before they can be applied. The changes must be approved by another user with write access on the flag. Examples include:
```

> After you enable approvals, subsequent changes that impact application behavior in that environment require approval from another user with the **Editor** role on the flag before they can be applied. Examples include:

Author: Fixed — reworded to 'another user with write access on the flag'.

- Enabling or disabling a flag
- Modifying targeting rules
- Archiving a flag

## Require approvals on a feature flag

### New flag

When creating a flag, toggle **Require approval on changes to this flag for all production environments** to enable approvals for that flag in every production environment.

> {{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/configure-flag-approvals-on-creation.png" alt="Create feature flag flow showing Approvals and notifications with Require approval on changes to this flag for all production environments enabled." style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: This image appears very large on the page; reduce the width so it doesn't overwhelm:
```suggestion
{{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/configure-flag-approvals-on-creation.png" alt="Create feature flag flow showing Approvals and notifications with Require approval on changes to this flag for all production environments enabled." style="width:65%;" >}}
```

Author: Fixed

### Existing flag

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Enabling or disabling approvals on an existing flag requires the organization permission <strong>Feature Flag Approvals Override</strong>, in addition to edit access on the flag. The same permission allows users to bypass or override the approvals workflow; see <a href="#override-approvals">Override approvals</a>.

Reviewer: The **Feature Flag Approvals Override** permission isn't listed on the [Permissions and Access Controls](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/anna.fenske/feature-flags-concept-permissions-and-approvals/feature_flags/concepts/permissions/) page; should we add to that list?

Author: Added — included in the organization permissions table in permissions.md.

</div>

1. Navigate to your flag's details page.
2. Open **Settings > Approvals**.
3. Toggle **Require approval on changes to this flag for all production environments**.

> {{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/flag-approvals-modal.png" alt="Approvals modal on a feature flag showing the Require approval on changes to this flag for all production environments toggle and a Save button." style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: This screenshot isn't necessary; it's a simple modal with a single toggle, and the preceding text explains the context and includes the toggle's full label text. Omit to reduce future maintenance.

Author: Removed screenshot & deleted image file.

## Approval workflow

### Submit changes for review

When you make a change that requires approval, a **Submit Changes For Review** modal appears. The modal prompts you to:

- Enter a description of the change
- Select a notification channel (for example, Slack or Microsoft Teams) for the approval request

> You can delete a pending change after creating it if you need to modify the submission.

Author: Fixed

### Approve, reject, or apply

Approvers see a diff, a description of the change, and the affected environment. From the approval request, they can:

- **Reject** the change suggestion
- **Approve** the change suggestion without applying it
- **Approve & apply** the change in one step

Approving a change suggestion does not apply it. The approved change remains visible on the flag, and you can apply it at any time after approval.

### Apply approved changes

After a change is approved, apply it when you are ready for it to take effect in the affected environment. You do not need to submit the change for review again.

### Override approvals

The **Feature Flag Approvals Override** organization permission serves two purposes:

- **Existing flags:** Required to enable approvals for a flag that already exists (in addition to [granular edit access](/feature_flags/concepts/permissions) on that flag).
- **Workflow bypass:** Allows holders to bypass the approvals workflow where that option is available, so changes can proceed without the usual review and approval steps.

> Treat this permission as highly sensitive: assign it only to people who may need to change approval requirements or make exceptions to governance. Organization permissions are granted through [Datadog roles](/account_management/rbac/); see [Permissions and Access Control](/feature_flags/concepts/permissions) for related Feature Flags permissions.

Author: Fixed — split into three sentences.
